---
title: "Title"
author: Daniel J. Hicks
date: Typeset \today
abstract: |
	abstract

<!--bibliography: ../bibfile.bib-->
---

# Introduction #

# Results #

## Validation of Values in Science Scale ##

To examine the underlying dimensionality of the Values in Science scale, we split the sample in half for the purposes of carrying out exploratory factor analysis (EFA) to see what underlying factor structure may be present based on participants' response and confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) to compare models that could be abstracted from the EFA. We created a dummy variable that randomly assigned participants to one of two groups, resulting in two sub-samples of 439 and 467 response sets, respectively. Before conducting the EFA, we checked whether the assumptions necessary for a valid EFA held. Bartlett's test of sphericity was significant, $$\chi^2$$ (`r bartlett$parameter`) = `r bartlett$statistic`, p = `r bartlett$p.value(round = 3)`. The Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin measure of sampling adequacy was `r kmo$MSA(round =2)`. The determinant of the correlation matrix was `r det(round = 5)`, indicating no multicollinearity issues.

We conducted our factor analysis on the first sub-sample using the psych package (version #whatever) in R. Parallel analysis indicated we should retain six factors for an exploratory factor analysis, although only three factors had eigenvalues greater than 1.0. As such, we computed solutions for a three and a six factor solution using varimax rotation, deciding to retain items that had at least |.3| factor loading on only one of the resulting factors. The six-factor solution explained 33% of the variance and was preferred because the resulting factor structure was more easily interpretable than the three factor solution, which only explained 25% of the variance.

We retained 29 out of the original 36 items. The retained items, factor loadings, and communalities are all shown in Table #. The first identified factor contains six items that cohere around scientistic perceptions of science, elevating the status of science as superior to other knowledge-production efforts. The second factor identified contains three items that emphasize the role of science within society, focusing on societal consequences of scientific endeavors. The third factor contains eight items that, together, appear to represent participants' level of cynicism regarding the credibility of scientists and the scientific community. The fourth factor contains three items that tap into participants' perceptions of the social power dynamics within the scientific community. The fifth factor identified contains five items that reflect perceptions of science as constrained to a relatively narrow set of methods and practices in order to be counted as science, i.e. a mythological "the" scientific method. The final factor identified contains four items that appear to tap into perceptions of science as capable of pure objectivity.

For cross-validation purposes, we ran a CFA on the second sub-sample using the factor structure extracted from the EFA. We carried out the CFA with maximum likelihood estimation using the lavaan package (version #whatever) in R. Fit indices, unfortunately, revealed the model was insufficient to adequately fit the data, $$\chi^2$$(308) = 981.10, p < .001, CFI = .622, AGFI = .817, RMSEA = .071, and SRMR = .086. Typically, values exceeding .90 for CFI and AGFI indicate acceptable fit and values below .05 for RMSEA and SRMR indicate acceptable fit (Hu & Bentler, 1999).

Despite results from the CFA, the strong theoretical coherence of the factor structure suggests ways in which future iterations of a scale to tap into peoples' perceived values about science could improve upon the current Values in Science scale. More precise item wording may be necessary to better capture elements of the aforementioned constructs. Similarly, additional items may be needed to capture more aspects of each the proposed latent constructs. Lastly, there may be additional relevant values and perceptions about science that are not captured at all in the present iteration of the Values in Science scale. Future work should consider each of these suggestions to build upon the preliminary work we report here on the development of a psychometrically valid instrument to capture peoples' values in science. Excepting the comparative fit index (CFI), the fit indices were close to thresholds indicative of acceptable model fit. As such, we have decided to continue with our subsequent analyses using the six-factor structure as a means of examining whether participant responses to the Values in Science scale has any potential predictive validity for participant responses to the perceived credibility of scientists who acknowledge the role of values in their scientific research. Results of any such tests must be interpreted with caution, however, in light of the CFA results.

## Replication Analyses ##


We tested the hypothesis of a modest correlation between values and ideology in two ways. First, to test (H1a) whether political liberals are more likely to prioritize public health over economic growth compared to conservatives, we conducted a Spearman's rank order correlation. Results revealed a significant correlation in line with the hypothesis, Spearman's rho = -.47, p < .001. Political liberals were more likely than conservatives to value public health over economic growth. To test (H1b) that a majority of political conservatives priortize public health over economic growth we cross-tabulated the data. Results revealed that, contrary to the hypothesis, slightly more than half of the self-reported political conservatives in our sample reported valuing economic growth (51.7%) over public health (48.3%).

Next, we tested the hypotheses that (H2) scientists who find a chemical harms human health are perceived as more trustworthy than scientist who find that a chemical does not cause harm and (H3) a scientist who discloses values are perceived as less trustworthy than a scientist who does not. For this analysis, we regressed participants' METI ratings onto both the Conclusions and Disclosure experimental conditions. The full model was significant, adj. R^2 = .148, F(2, 985) = 86.59, p < .001 (see Table #). Specifically, results revealed that the conclusions reported by the scientist predicted participants' perceived trustworthiness in line with our hypothesis. Participants rated the scientist who reported that BPA causes harm as more trustworthy than the scientist who reported that BPA does not cause harm. By contrast, the results do not provide evidence in favor of our hypothesis that a scientist disclosing their values are perceived as less trustworthy than a scientist who does not disclose values. 

Next, we tested the hypothesis that (H4) if the participant and scientist share the same values, the scientist is perceived as more trustworthy than if the participant and scientist do not share the same values. For this and related analyses, we only included data from participants who were assigned to either of the Disclosure conditions and self-reported their own values, reducing the sample to 567. Following this, we created a new Shared Values variable as a composite of the participants' reported values and the scientist's values. For this analysis, because the Shared Values is a composite, we wanted to adjust the model to account for any direct contributions to participants' METI rating by either the scientist's values or the participants' values. Thus, we regression participant METI scores onto the participants' reported values, the scientist's values condition, and the composite Shared Values variable. The resulting model was significant, adj. R^2 = .065, F(3, 563) = 14.15, p < .001. However, contrary to expectations, Shared Values did not emerge as a significant predictor of participants' perceptions of the trustworthiness of the scientist. Rather, only the scientist's stated values significantly predicted how trustworthy participants rated the scientist such that a scientist who disclosed valuing public health was rated as more trustworthy than a scientist who disclosed valuing economic growth. This was true even for participants who valued economic growth over public health.

## Variation in Effect Sizes ## 

We ran the following analyses to test our hypothesis that (H5) the magnitude of the effects found for the tests of H2-H4 vary depending on whether the participant prioritizes public health or economic growth. Results are presented in Table #.

H5a - consumer risk sensitivity
To test whether the findings regarding consumer risk sensitivity vary as a function of participants' values, we regressed participants' METI ratings of the scientist in the stimuli onto the Conclusions condition, Participants' Values variable, and the Conclusions by Participants' values interaction term. The full model was significant, adj. R^2 = .173, F(3, 840) = 59.95, p < .001. As with the earlier analysis, results showed a main effect of the Conclusions condition, such that participants rated the scientist who reported that BPA causes harm as more trustworthy than the scientist who reported that BPA does not cause harm. However, this effect was qualified by a significant interaction with participants' values. Participants who prioritized public health over economic growth and read about a scientist who concluded that BPA causes harm rated the scientist as more trustworthy than participants who read about a scientist who concluded that BPA does not cause harm, regardless of those participants' values.


H5b - transparency penalty
To test whether the findings above about a hypothesized transparency penalty may vary based on participants' values, we regressed participants' METI ratings of the scientist onto the Disclosure condition variable, Participants' Values variable, and the Disclosure by Participants' Values interaction term. The full model was not significant, adj. R^2 < .001, F(3, 840) = 1.19, p = .31. As with the earlier analysis, our results do not provide evidence for a transparency penalty to the perceived trustworthiness of a scientist, either in general or interacting with participants' own reported values. 


H5c - shared values
To test whether the findings regarding Shared values vary as a function of participants' values, we regressed participants' METI ratings of the scientist in the stimuli onto the Shared Values variable, Participants' Values variable, and the Shared Values by Participants' values interaction term. The full model was significant, adj. R^2 = .065, F(3, 563) = 14.15, p < .001. Results from this analysis suggests that Shared Values does predict the perceived trustworthiness of a scientist, such that if participants share the same values as the scientist, the scientist is perceived as more trustworthy. The model revealed a significant interaction between Shared Values and Participants' Values such that the highest perceived trustworthiness ratings were from participants who prioritized public health over economic growth reading about a scientist who disclosed valuing public health. However, as revealed in our analysis for H4, the evidence that shared values between the participant and scientist are what predicts the perceived trustworthiness of a scientist should be interpreted with caution. Because of the inclusion of Participants' values and the Scientist's values in the analysis for H4, the set of predictor variables for that model and the set of predictor variables for this model are different linear combinations of each other. Hence why the resulting full model parameters are identical between the two models. In spite of this, we report the results of this analysis for the sake of completeness, as this was an a priori planned statistical analysis.

Because of the findings from the analysis run to test H4, we conducted an unplanned post hoc analysis to further test the hypothesis that the effects found in the earlier analysis vary as a function of participants' values. For this test, we regression METI scores onto the Scientist's Values experimental condition, the Shared Values composite variable, and their interaction term. This is, as with the previous model and the model reported to test H4, a different linear combination of the same predictor variables and therefore the full model parameters are identical. However, presentation of the model this way renders a clearer picture of what variables we tested seem to be driving perceptions of the trustworthiness of a scientist. The evidence here suggests that if a scientist chooses to disclose their values alongside their presentation of scientific research, what values they share predicts their perceived trustworthiness, and that the scientist in our study who disclosed valuing public health was perceived a significantly more trustworthy than the scientist who disclosed valuing economic growth.


## Interactions with Values in Science Scale ##

We ran the following analyses to test our hypothesis that (H6) the magnitude of the effects found for the above reported tests vary depending on the participant's views on the role of values in science. Results are presented in Table #.

H6a
To test whether participants' views on the role of values in science influence the effects of the consumer risk sensitivity hypothesis we tested, we regression participant METI ratings onto the Conclusions variable, participant scores on the six ViSS subscales, and their respective interaction terms. The full model was significant, adj. R^2 = .163, F(13, 892) = 14.55, p < .001.

H6b
To test whether participants' views on the role of values in science influence the effects of scientist values disclosure, we regression participant METI ratings onto the Disclosure variable, participant scores on the six ViSS subscales, and their respective interaction terms. The full model was not significant, adj. R^2 = .008, F(13, 892) = 1.19, p = .08.

H6c
To test whether participants' views on the role of values in science influence the effects of the shared values between participants and the scientist, we regression participant METI ratings onto the Shared Values variable, participant scores on the six ViSS subscales, and their respective interaction terms. The full model was significant, adj. R^2 = .077, F(13, 520) = 3.354, p < .001.